B35. Create a class named “PrintNumber” to print various numbers of different datatypes by creating
different methods with the same name “printn” having a parameter for each data type.

B36. Create a class to print an integer and a character with two methods having the same name but
different sequence of the integer and the character parameters.
For example, if the parameters of the first method are of the form (int n, char c), then that of the
second method will be of the form (char c, int n).

B37. Create a class to print the area of a square and a rectangle. The class has two methods with the
same name but different number of parameters. The method for printing area of a rectangle has two
parameters which are length and breadth respectively while the other method for printing area of
square has one parameter which is side of square.

B38. Create a class with a method that prints “This is a parent class” and its subclass with another
method that prints “This is child class”. Now, create an object for each of the class and call
1 - method of parent class by object of parent class
2 - method of child class by object of child class
3 - method of parent class by object of child class

B40. Create a class named Rectangle with two data members length and breadth and two methods to
print the area and perimeter of the rectangle respectively. Its constructor having parameters for
length and breadth is used to initialize the length and breadth of the rectangle. Let class Square
inherit the Rectangle class with its constructor having a parameter for its side (suppose s) calling the
constructor of its parent class as ‘super (s, s)’. Print the area and perimeter of a rectangle and a
square.

B41. Write a program to print the area and perimeter of a triangle having sides of 3, 4 and 5 units by
creating a class named ‘Triangle’ without any parameter in its constructor.

B26. W.A.J. P to demonstrate try catch block, Take two numbers from the user and perform the
division operation and handle Arithmetic Exception.

I1. W.A.J.P to read 10 integer values using Scanner class from keyboard. Generate the exception if
the entered value is less than 10 and or greater than 40. Program should display appropriate message
as and when this exception occurs otherwise it will display all the entered values.

I2. W.A.J.P to create the validate method that takes integer value as a parameter. If the age is less
than 18, then throw an ArithmeticException otherwise print a message welcome to vote.
