Module -1) Introduction 

1. What is software

Software is a set of instructions, data or programs used to operate computers and execute specific tasks. It is the opposite of hardware, which describes the physical aspects of a computer. Software is a generic term used to refer to applications, scripts and programs that run on a device.
The two main categories of software are application software and system software. An application is software that fulfills a specific need or performs tasks. System software is designed to run a computer's hardware and provides a platform for applications to run on top of.

2.Types of application

General Applications software are as follows:
Word Processing Software
Graphics Software
Spreadsheet Software
Presentation Software
Web Browsers
Multimedia Software
Education and Reference Software
Simulation Software
Content Access Software
Information Worker Software

3.What is mobile application 

A mobile application, most commonly referred to as an app, is a type of application software designed to run on a mobile device, such as a smartphone or tablet computer. Mobile applications frequently serve to provide users with similar services to those accessed on PCs. Apps are generally small, individual software units with limited function. This use of app software was originally popularized by Apple Inc. and its App Store, which offers thousands of applications for the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch.

A mobile application also may be known as an app, web app, online app, iPhone app or smartphone app.

4.Difference between mobile application and web application

A web app is an app that is available online and can be used on multiple devices, but a mobile app is an app that only works on a mobile device.
Mobile apps are designed for use on smartphones, tablets, and other smaller touch devices. You typically go through a store like Google Play (Android), Windows Store (Windows), or Apple (iOS) to install a mobile app. They provide users with functionality similar to what you receive browsing a web app from a desktop computer.
Web applications run in a web browser and can be made “mobile-friendly” to shrink down to the size of the screen you’re viewing. You can make web applications as simple or complex as you need. They can serve a single purpose like many mobile apps, or you can design them to encompass many different purposes.
‌Web apps provide you with access to a lot more features than mobile apps. For example, Adobe Photoshop offers both a mobile app and a web app for users. However, the mobile app has stripped-down features for drawing and painting, while the web applications let you use the full capabilities of Adobe Photoshop, offering a better user experience. Other examples of web apps include Google Apps, Microsoft 365, and Gmail.

5.Who developed Android 

Android history begins in October 2003. This was well before the term smartphone became ubiquitous. It’s also several years before Apple announced the first iPhone and iOS. Android Inc was founded in Palo Alto, California. Rich Miner, Nick Sears, Chris White, and Andy Rubin were its four founders. At the time, Rubin mentioned Android Inc would develop “smarter mobile devices that are more aware of its owner’s location and preferences.”
